---
title: Week 4 - Reflection on gSchool and TrafficSpy
date: 2013-03-01 09:04 -07:00
tags: gschool, trafficspy
---

After a month, I'm feeling surprisingly good about my progress so far. I'm not sure I would have even said that a week ago. It's hard to say why, exactly. Maybe its the idea that one month marks a landmark, and I'm familiar to the feeling of a month elapsing. I have infinitely more developing down than before a month ago (though I suppose going from 0 to anything would be infinite). Still, I feel like I have a strong ground foundation on Ruby. I think re-reading Eloquent Ruby or going back over the more complex topics could further cement my initial understandings and move me forward as well. I still look at some of the Hungry Academy SalesEngine gits and can't understand what they're doing. I look forward to using more mixins, RegExp, and DDD.

I feel like my relationship with my peers has somewhat contrasted from my expectations. I was expecting a bit more of Stockholm Syndrome bonding going on. Instead, I still feel like I've interacted with some more than others. Some folks in class I still feel are like friends in my college classes - I know them, I have asked them questions before, but I've never worked with them and never really spoken with them outside of a class setting. Still, that feeling of "being in the trenches" and meeting great people exists with many other folks in the class. It's just not as universal as I would have imagined. Everyone is coming from different walks of life (different ages, different moments in life, different backgrounds/cities of origin), and I know after the program folks will be taking advantage of all of the West Coast cities gSchool connections have to offer (and maybe even elsewhere! Oslo, Katrina? Japan to hang with Matz?) In that regard, the "I'm here with these fools for now and for the next 18 months after" that existed in "Hungry Academy" does not exist here. It's much more casual, a little more organic - I can't tell if that's better for getting to know others or worse.

Also: apparently we have a skills evaluation on Monday! I'm not really sure how those will fly, so it's hard to say how well I'll do. I find that I can successfully complete the warm-ups well once every other day, so if that's any indication, I imagine I'll do alright. 

Next month I resolve to be more patient with myself and with others. I find myself getting frustrated at small things like typos or missing "do" in rspecs - gotta stop that. It's part of programming to make mistakes, and it's not respectful of myself or those around me to show that sort of discomfort. Sometimes I'll get frustrated at myself when I can't get an answer right or can't grasp something conceptually - but I have to realize that's sort of the point of coming back to school. To be frustrated. To learn and cope with that frustration and feel the satisfaction of learning something new by the end of the prompt, or day, or project, or course.

As for our new project, TrafficSpy, I'm sure many are going to talk about similar pang points: using new languages together, interacting outside of a local terminal, and having more interacting puzzle pieces is both exciting to use and difficult to write. I'll continue to enjoy the process of this project, and more reflections will come next week.