---
title: Response to Fowler's 'The Passionate Programmer' - Part 1
date: 2013-02-04 11:55 -07:00
tags: passionate programmer, required reading
---

The Fowler tip that stuck with me the most was "[you're a] small pebble in big pond." In my previous job at Google, I'd felt like I made almost no economic or cultural impact on the company outside my tiny sphere of influence. Obviously, leaving the company for gSchool was not a decision I took lightly. In lieu of the perks, pay, and lifestyle, I knew I was making a major change. But part of the reason I wanted to leave was what Fowler mentioned about "self" in this article. He noted that most people who fantasize about storming out of their office and shouting "I quit!" with hands to the heavens are concerned about themselves. They don't understand that everyone else is also concerned about "self," and think that their existence is irreplacable. I, of course, didn't quit Google to spite others, but because I needed to work on "self" and go on an adventure. "Small pebble / big pond" mindset not only applies to big companies, but as Fowler points out, the work force in general. If you don't maintain a sense of humility in your work, you will aggrandize your self-worth to a point that is counter-productive and egotistic.

"Don't listen to what your parents say" was an initially surprising tip topic. I was expecting something along the line of "rebel against the old ways!" or "your parents can't teach you about computers! / new tricks!" Instead, I found the article focused on not "being safe." Most parents want what's best for their kids, which means playing it safe and making calculated, riskless career decisions. Though Fowler points out this typifies parenting only to an extent, I found the tip to be a little unnecessary. There are many ways to say take risks - "don't listen to your parents" seems like a pretty strange way to say it. What if you have an overly risky personality and need someone to reel you in? I totally get that, for the most, people make too-safe career decisions. But I feel most parents want their kids to be happy first, safe second (a close second). Our parents had parents too, and I'm sure they can empathize with our career and life choices. As the co-founder of github mentioned, he'd rather look back on his life and think that it was an adventure, and not merely a safe, cost-effective existence. I wonder what his parents would have to say about his life choices?

Of the tips that seem challenging, the "mind reader" tip would be difficult to implement, and not just for the obvious reason. Fowler not only talks about the eerie "ability to predict what you were going to ask" but also the general ability to listen to others. By listening well to others' phrasing, emphasis, and tonality, one could pick up on context clues, even those "so subtle that even [Fowler] didn't realize [he] had said them." There's definitely something daring about implementing change before being asked, or writing new code to predict managerial and customer behavior. This "mind reading" isn't ESP, but rather instinct. But what if you're wrong? What if you misread someone's mind, or what if you're caught spending the company's time (read: 'money') doing work no one asked you to do? I don't find the listening part too tough to implement - but having the courage to implement change based on implied mannerisms seems tricky indeed. What if you upset management? Or worse, the customer? It would be difficult to implement safety nets here without knowing a company and product forwards and backwards. Further, you could ask explicitly if making these decisions make sense - testing your mind reading on friends and co-workers before going for higher level changes. 

Part 2 to come next week.
