---
title: Retrospective on SalesEngine
date: 2013-02-22 09:05 -07:00
tags:
---

SalesEngine was definitely a mentally straining project when it started - in retrospect, I would have done things very differently. SalesEngine is an app that parses CSV and uses their information to build objects for customers, merchants, invoices, etc., and later uses these class objects to build relationships, business intelligence, and more. I put in around 3 hours outside of class time every day since the project began, including a few marathon sessions (Saturday comes to mind, where my partner and I logged around 8 hours straight before collapsing on our own ineptitude). I believe, for the most, those non-valuable hours - time spent "just thinking", or toiling on a topic we didn't understand - really detracted from the project. I should have spent more time building out models, doing research, asking for help.

If we started the project over again, I'd try to maintain easy-to-read, clear methods, lines, and classes from the get-go. A lot of time was wasted on trying to find the right method that would relate to a new idea. A lot of time could have been saved by writing clearer parameter, variable, and method names. I found myself reusing the same couple of "multi-purpose" methods to build out other ideas, when I could have found or used much more specific ones.

It was a bit tricky working with a partner at times. This was my first real paired-programming experience, as well as my first "remote work" experience, as my partner lives and commutes to and from Boulder every day. Though only and hour or so away, that commute made a big difference. Additionally, we definitely worked at different paces, which made things challenging but also definitely rewarding. Without my partner, I likely would have just typed away without a filter, and had no one to call me on my messy code. Plus, we formed a solid bond by the end of the project, having mentored and mentee-ed one another on and off throughout the project. By the end, I had a pretty strong grasp on all of the code we'd written. Our time management was solid as well. There were only a few times where I thought, "wait... why did that work?" And typically we would look back and realize our mistakes. One example that comes to mind was building out a "most items" class method that asked a merchant how many items they'd sold to a specific customer (I'm paraphrasing). In any case, I realized, even though our tests sorta worked, that we'd left a few key elements out of the puzzle. The "why did that work?" came into play, especially when our TDD was supposed to have failed. We realized that we'd included all transactions, rather than just successful ones.

As for feeling like "I'm a developer"... I still don't. I'm developING. Which is a definite positive. At this point I've built tools based on a certain set of requirements, based on my limited set of skills, struggling all along the way. I'm not at the point where I can look at a general problem and say "oh, I know 100 different ways to build that. Let me take out my toolbox." Only once I've built out that toolbox, only once I feel confident in my work, could I call myself a developer. I made this analogy in my last post - let's say I want to get into the big leagues and play ball. At this point, I could call myself a baseball player, because I can throw and catch. But I couldn't call myself a Derek Jeter, because I couldn't turn in midair and hurl the ball to first. I'm a developing player, a developing developer. It's going to take a bit more time before I can step up to the big leagues.

I'm very excited to get started in the web. The user experience is very important - not all users can jump into a Ruby-controlled terminal environment and run some lines. The connection between the backend and frontend is crucial to building a well-rounded app. Granted, not all people enjoy doing work in both - but I think it's important to get experience in both, to build out that toolbox. One more tool.

As for the gSchool, I must say that I've thoroughly enjoyed it so far. I don't feel like anything as been TOO overwhelming, nothing too nerve-wracking. I've never had to stay up all night to work on a project, and there's been time and space to learn naturally. I've enjoyed working with a fairly diverse bunch. I really enjoy our daily warmup exercises to get our minds working, as well as the required reading from Russ Olsen and Chad Fowler. I'm really excited that it's only been a month, and am excited for the days to come. SalesEngine was the beginning.